
global.chara_move: define se o personagem pode se mover, mas não impede dele poder interagir e se mover entre quartos

global.chara_facing: define o sprite do personagem, ele muda automaticamente no personagem e se define caso global.chara_move for verdadeiro

global.chara_interact: define se o personagem pode interagir com objetos e se mover entre quartos

global.chara_cutscene: define se pode abrir o inventário, define se o personagem pode se mover quando o obj_writer_controller se destruir e quando a transição entre quartos acaba, também define se o obj_border_block pode mudar o image_alpha

global.chara_openmenu: apenas define se pode abrir o inventário. É usado no CAPTCHA 3, já que o chara_cutscene faria o jogador não poder mais se mover depois de interagir com uma placa






















Hello, new member. Welcome to the world of Dumpster Friends!
... and you probably shouldn't be here.


In Dumpgame, you control a child who mistakenly entered in a magic world full of weird monsters and oversized children. Make your way back to the real world and discover the underlying secrets of this place!



General information
Dumpgame is a free Brazilian game mostly made by one person, me, dsans.
Its amazing soundtrack was made by migel.
Featuring a similar gameplay to UNDERTALE, that is, the same text box, battle system,
in-game menu, controls, among others. However, it has a new story and characters, it's not a "swap", "fell", "yellow", or anything like that. 
Currently available in only two languages, in English and Brazilian Portuguese.
It was used GameMaker Studio 2 to make the game and FL Studio to make the music.


Feel free to give honest reviews and suggestions, we're always looking to make that Dumpgame's experience feels the best to you, and to us, who have carried this in our arms.   

You can check out the YouTube channel or the official site more Dumpgame content, like trailers, gameplays, showcases, updates and more!



(The DEMO is currently in development. But a "PRE-DEMO" that's about half of the size of the full DEMO is currently available.)

(The screenshots are outdated. I'll update them someday.)